---
layout: post
title: 'My thoughts on NFTs'
date: 2020-03-25 19:51:00 +01:00
tags: tech web3 crypto
comments: true
---

## What are NFTs?
In case you have been living under a rock for the last year, an NFT (or non-fungible token) is basically some kind of data that is saved on a blockchain, making verification of ownership of said data possible. Most of the time, this is used for images, or rather links to images. So instead of owning some amount of cryptocurrency, which is what blockchains are traditionally used for, NFTs allow you to own images and other data.

## But... why?
There are multiple great usecases for NFTs. For example, you may want to decentralize ownership verification of items in your game, making it much more resiliant to attacks. Or maybe you want to create tradable usage licenses for your work.

## The problems
I do think that the general concept of an NFT is great, but right now it's just not used in ways it should be. As with anything crypto related, the scene is full of speculation (or as i call it, gambling) and scams. The actual content of an NFT does not matter, what matters is how much it goes for and how much the price rises or falls. This makes an NFT not much different to your typical stock, just without any protections. If you want to gamble your money be my guest, but just don't put it on some randomly generated image of a goddamn monkey.

## A chain of idiots
So, let's say you want to make money with NFTs and you just bought the latest and greatest monkey image out there. Now you need to find someone to sell it to, for a higher price. As the value of your NFT is purely virtual, this creates a dilemma. Why would anyone want buy your monkey? There are only 2 reasons: Profit, and bragging rights. Everything else can be achieved by just downloading the image, you don't need to own it to do that. So basically, you need to find an idiot who thinks your monkey is worth more than it is. And that idiot then needs to find another idiot, and so on. Creating a long chain of idiots, starting with the only non-idiot, the person who minted the NFT and is receiving free money every time a new idiot is found.

## How NFTs should be used
In my mind, the best NFT is the one you don't even know is an NFT. For example, your inventory in a video game may be full of NFTs that still look like classic items. This gives you all the benefits of the technology, but removes all the gambling and scamming. 