---
layout: post
title: 'Why code should be free'
date: 2020-03-25 21:44:00 +01:00
comments: true
tags: foss
---

## What is free software?
The concept of free software, as defined by the [Free Software Foundation](https://fsf.org), consists of the following 4 freedoms:
- The freedom to run the program as you wish, for any purpose
- The freedom to study how the program works, and change it so it does your computing as you wish
- The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help others
- The freedom to distribute copies of your modified versions to others

Contrary to popular belief, free software is not necessarily free in a monetary sense. It only refers to **freedom**.

The opposite of free software is called proprietary or nonfree software. Software that is missing one or more of the freedoms is proprietary.

## Why this matters
Your computer (or any other device that runs software) is your property. This means you should have full control over what it is doing. By using proprietary software, you give that control to whoever created it. Imagine, for example, that some corporation is able to take control over your car and make you drive to wherever they want to. Sounds pretty dystopian, right? Sadly, in computing, this dystopy is very much reality, and most people don't seem to care. Corporations like Microsoft, Facebook, Google, etc are constantly harvesting your personal data, shoving ads down your throat, and telling you what you can and can't do with your devices. With free software on the other hand, you can see exactly what it does and modify it if you don't like something it's doing or even if it's missing a feature you want.

## What you can do
The first step to free yourself from proprietary software is using free operating systems, which pretty much means: Install Linux!
You may have heard that using Linux is hard and you're forced to do everything in terminals, but that was the past. Yes, advanced users pretty much use terminal commands for everything, but you definitely don't have to. Almost every distribution has some kind of graphical package manager nowadays (think Microsoft store but good) and modern desktop environments like [Gnome](https://www.gnome.org/) are incredibly user-friendly.

Now, if you're running a free OS, you want to keep proprietary software you run on it to the bare minimum. Depending on what you typically do and what kinda hardware you have you may not be able to completely get rid of proprietary software, and that's totally fine, but you should switch to free alternatives wherever possible. For me personally, the only nonfree software installed on my computer is Discord, video games, and the nvidia driver.

## "But i don't care if they have my data"
This, sadly, is a very common statement. You need to realize that any data you give to corporations is being used against you. Most commonly, to serve you ads that are tailored to you, psychologically tricking you into buying stuff you don't even want or need. You may not care about your data, but you definitely care about your money.