---
layout: post
title: 'Fosscord: Discord, but better?'
date: 2022-03-25 22:32:00 +01:00
comments: true
tags: foss discord
---

## What is Fosscord?
[Fosscord](https://fosscord.com) is a project that aims to be a full foss reimplementation of the Discord API. To the point that you are even able to connect the regular Discord client to a Fosscord server. With it, you're pretty much able to host a Discord backend on your own server.

Disclaimer: I am a contributor at Fosscord

## The problems with Discord
Discord, in concept, is a good idea. But sadly, it has been corrupted by capitalism. First off, it's proprietary, which inherently makes it something i don't want to use (but sadly am bound to it). But that's not even the worst part.

The Discord client, mainly due to being based on Electron, is a steaming pile of garbage. Constant hang-ups, crashes, and bugs are every day occurences. For example, as of writing this, i can't even be in a voice channel for longer than about an hour without it crashing, the only information available being "segmentation fault". There even was a time where i couldn't even start the client for a few weeks without disabling GPU sandboxing (making things like video embeds and dev tools unusable) because they can't even keep their version of electron up to date. And when you want to use a 3rd party client, you risk account termination.

The Discord moderation team (or "Trust&Safety", as they call it) is a complete mess. Think Reddit mods, but worse. There are countless stories of people being completely banned from the platform without being given any reason whatsoever, or even for things that didn't even happen on Discord (talking about the Quackity situation). Also, your account can even be banned for simply being member on a guild that violates their ToS, even if you didn't even send a single message on it.

Then there is all the crap they shove down your throat. No, Discord, i'm not interested in linking my non-existant PlayStation account, you don't need to tell me that i can do that a thousand goddamn times in every way imaginable. Also, i don't want you to **change my goddamn notification sounds** just because it's christmas. 

Believe it or not, there isn't even any encryption. Discord is able to read the content of any message, even listen in on voice calls. In my opinion, if you don't offer any privacy whatsoever nowadays, you definitely are doing something very sketchy. 

## How Fosscord may be the solution
With Fosscord, the way everything is built up doesn't change, so everything you're used to stays the same. The difference being that you have full control over everything. It's completely disconnected from Discord itself. You know exactly what happens with your data, there is no authority pushing you around, and you can modify everything to your hearts content.

## Usability
As of writing this, Fosscord is far from even being on-par with Discord. There is no voice support, no trivial way of administrating your instance, even messaging doesn't fully work. But, that being said, it's very promising. If everything that Fosscord promises is being made a reality, there would be no sensible reason to use Discord anymore.